# BlockGrid
BlockGrid is a demonstration prototype and instruction platform for blockchain technology, smart contract development, and blockchain-based physical computing


Blockchain technology has garnered significant attention in recent years as a potential computing paradigm shift that could fundamentally change the way information is stored for wide array of important applications such as financial transactions, cloud computing, and IoT networks. In order to meet the challenge of intelligently and appropriately incorporating blockchain technology into  existing IT infrastructure, there is a need for educators to train students on how the technology works, how software interfaces with it in the form of smart contracts, and how the technology can interact with physical systems. In additional to the normal challenges of incorporating a new technology into training and curriculum, the difficulty of teaching and demonstrating blockchain technology is further compounded by the fact that most blockchain applications are large in scale, difficult to virtualize and simulate on a general purpose laptop due to computational intensity, and often blocked by local facility IT-security tools seeking to detect and prevent illegal cryptocurrency mining.
  
In order to enable effective demonstration and instruction on blockchain technology, smart contract development, and blockchain based physical computing, the BlockGrid utilizes an internally networked cluster of raspberry pi microcomputers to manage a small smart grid with smart contracts running on a private Ethereum blockchain. The raspberry pi’s on the system act as both nodes on the blockchain and power flow gates for a system of connected circuits. Smart contracts running on the blockchain manage power allocation and monitor current flow and energy storage for the system in conjunction with smart contract interface scripts that run locally on the raspberry pi’s. The system requires no external internet access, is comparatively portable, and can be easily altered to the incorporate electronic devices desired by the operator into the grid. With a few simple installations any local computer can be connected to the private blockchain system via ethernet cable. If the system is connected to a computer with internet access, it can be easily configured for remote access by students during take-home assignments or research. 
  
Upon completion, this project github repository and accompanying youtube channel will offer instructors a comprehensive implementation guide for reproduction of the system, walkthroughs on how to modify the system to incorporate different appliances into the grid, and three sample laboratory assignments that introduce students respectively to the fundamentals of blockchain operation, smart contract development, and blockchain-based physical computing.
